---
tags:
  - star_system
---
# Jormund
From the outside, Jormund, the second of three planets orbiting the star Jotun, seems like the least likely place to find a thriving race of people: it is a desolate ball of rock, pockmarked with craters, nearly devoid of atmosphere, and constantly blasted by radiation. Just below this stark surface, though, Jormund teems with life, not the least of which are the dwarves themselves. 

The oldest dwarven records recall that Jormund once flourished with surface life. Eons ago, long before the dwarves fashioned their first ships from mountains and rockets, a great cataclysm befell the planet, forcing life on the planet to flee underground. The details of the old cataclysm are lost to time, for conflicting stories tell of different disasters, from a war caused by the greed of an ancient dwarven king, to the folly of an invention crafted by a mad blacksmith, to the poisonous breath of a spiteful dragon which contaminated the skies. Despite being sequestered away under the surface, the subterranean dwarven cities are true marvels of engineering. Their tunnels stretch deep into the planet some reaching nearly to its core. The highest cities, which reach the surface itself are full of brisk winds and titanic granite stonework, while the lowest cities, nestled in artificially-cooled pockets within molten rock, are humid places of stunning obsidian towers. Indeed, within its rocky caverns and carved halls, the planet’s interior, called the **Granite Throne**, can house nearly every inhabitant of dwarven space. This becomes a requirement at least once a generation, as each dwarf dedicated to the Conclave makes the journey home to elect two of their elders to supreme leadership, that of the Matriarch and the Patriarch.

# The Adamantine Fleet 
Despite their peaceful expansion to the stars, dwarves retain every ounce of their legendary ruggedness, their love of strong drink, and their fury in battle. Dwarven soldiers and smiths are held in high regard across the ‘verse as potential mercenaries or crew members—many even think having a dwarf aboard is good luck. Dwarven spacecraft are praised just as highly: the Adamantine Fleet may not be as large as the Hegemony Armada nor as swift as an Elven Forest-Fleet, but its ships are nearly impossible to destroy. Coupled with the dwarven tendency to experiment with explosives, even a single dwarven ship can make for an astonishingly frightening foe.