---
title: Welcome to The Verse
draft: "false"
tags:
  - location
  - species
  - star_system
---
_D&D Campaign run in the city of nexus discord server._

>To a terrestrial adventurer, the scale of the galaxy can be mind-bending and a bit frightening. It betrays much of what their senses tell them: the land on which they walk is down, the sky is up, the sun goes from east to west. The idea that “up” is in all directions, or that there is no constant “down,” or that your world is but a speck of the cosmic whole is antithetical to nearly everything they’ve ever learned. 
>
>However, for those adventurers who can muster the courage to brave the starry skies, to strike out into the unknown, and to take their first bold steps into the night, untold treasures are there to be had. 
>
>The galaxy is where interstellar travelers spend their time, charting their way through the Black, the empty space between worlds. Facilitating their journeys are [[Maws|the maws]], which (in conjunction with their starships) allow them to travel between stars and vast stretches of galaxy by jumping through the Void. From the markets on the maws to the inner workings of their own ships, they’ll come across an endless array of magical technology, from the simple blaster to the intricate [[Dark Matter Drive]]. Equipment in hand, it is on them to find purpose, meaning, and potentially profit in the galaxy; there is a nearly endless amount of adventuring and exploring to be done, a wide variety of races and factions to engage with or work for, and plenty of deadly hazards to avoid.
## The Galaxy 
The Milky Way galaxy, located along the upper edge of the Virgo Supercluster, is a spiral galaxy roughly one hundred thousand light years in diameter and nearly ten thousand light years thick. Collected within this massive, swirling disk of stars, planets, nebulae, and other celestial bodies are all of the sentient beings known to exist in the universe. While most scholars assume that life, and indeed sentient life, must exist within galaxies beyond the borders of the Milky Way, such places are beyond the reach of even the fastest ships. For all intents and purposes, the beings that inhabit this galaxy are alone in the universe. Regardless of this fact, few, if any, creatures in this corner of the universe (often colloquially shortened to “the ’verse”) feel or will claim to be alone, at least on a galactic scale. Scattered amongst the four galactic quadrants are millions of life-bearing planets of all shapes and sizes, housing quadrillions of sentient beings. Dispersed between and around these worlds are millions of space stations, satellites, outposts, and lairs tucked into the recesses of every sizable asteroid and comet available. While many habitable worlds are either home to peoples which have yet to discover space flight or are completely unaffiliated with galactic alliances, most discovered worlds belong to one of the galactic factions. These powerful federations, hegemonies, empires, and loose conglomerates span the ‘verse, extending to their natural limit at the Galactic Frontier. Facilitating these massive alliances is the [[Maws|maw network]], a web-like series of immense, interconnected space stations spread in concentric rings emanating from the galactic core, which serve dual purposes as both communication relays and jump-stations

## The Black 
Despite the truly staggering number of stars, planets, and other celestial bodies in the galaxy, they altogether account for less than a fraction of a percent of its volume. Indeed, space is filled with an unfathomable amount of empty nothingness. This featureless, cold, and lifeless vacuum is often referred to by spacers as “the Black.” It is truly ubiquitous, for every world in the ‘verse floats within it. The massive expanse of the Black is the single greatest challenge to all long-distance space travel. While travel between planets in a single star system is possible for slower vessels, to cross even the shortest stretch of Black between habitable worlds without faster-than-light (FTL) travel takes many human lifetimes (and even a few elven lifetimes). Lack of air, food, water, and light means that life support systems are essential for any interstellar journey, and to find yourself stranded means slow, certain death (assuming a rogue burst of radiation or a stray asteroid doesn’t speed up the process). While powerful terrestrial mages can cross a planet with a wave of their hand and a magic word or two, spells of that nature (such as teleport) don't penetrate far into the Black, nor can similar spells that utilize planar travel. 

## Dead Magic Zones
No obstacle in the Black is as perilous and impassable as Dead Magic Zones. In these areas, where the magic of the ‘verse has worn thin and ripped wholly asunder, no magic functions, including that which powers ships and drives Dark Matter engines. Navigation systems fail, life support fizzles out, and engines go silent. Finding oneself in one of these zones without a nonmagical means of escape is truly a death sentence. Though Dead Magic Zones might appear fixed in place on a map, their boundaries are ever-shifting and churning; they warp, grow, shrink, separate, and merge, all seemingly at random. The largest masses of dead magic appear largely static, but only on the scale of lifetimes. Over millennia, through constant, imperceptible motions, they too move across the ‘verse, swallowing some worlds and releasing others as they move. Worlds that lie deep within Dead Magic Zones are considered by many to be lost worlds, inaccessible and cut off from the universe. The gnomish homeworld of [[Nebellion]] is one such world, and as a result, gnomish tinkers have developed marvels of science that function and power themselves without the use of magic.

# Sessions
- [[Session 0]]
