---
draft: "true"
---

Across the ‘verse, the Cabal is synonymous with devil- summoning and unholy bargains, but to say that they’re evil would be an outright exaggeration. The Cabal is an enterprising office of soul brokers, who arrange lucrative contracts in exchange for parts of a signee’s soul. Such contracts are fair, clearly spelled-out, and never offered unsolicited; moreover, most contracts exchange only a percentage of the signee’s soul for a disbursement. One percent of a soul could be worth a few thousand credits, whereas ten percent could buy a brand-new starship, place a down payment on a house, and leave some left over in the bank. Signees are free to decide from a number of generous disbursement packages and receive prompt payment for their souls. 

This method of soul contracting isn't just efficient, but it represents a triumph of the free market. The soul brokers who work for the Cabal need not worry about signing mortal bargains for entire souls at once; they each collect dozens of souls a year, taken from hundreds of different signees. Those who sign such contracts need not worry about being damned to the Lower Planes for eternity as a part of their bargain; instead, they can (probably) expect their afterlives will be merely tarnished, as only part of their eternal soul ascends. They can even return to sign additional contracts. Best of all, the process doesn’t require any tiresome blood rituals or fiendish temptation, as the Cabal operates out of ordinary office buildings. 

The Cabal was founded by Mr. Bell, secretly a high- ranking devil named Belphagor. At the time he arrived on the Material Plane, soul trading was a clumsy affair, requiring a creature to trade its entire soul for one favor, which was rarely as valuable as the soul itself. While this system meant that devils almost always profited on their deals, it also meant that far fewer creatures were willing to barter with them. To remedy this, Belphagor derived the exact monetary value for a mortal soul and a system by which to trade away only a small portion of it. Before long, human greed and the free market ran away with the idea. Belphagor no longer needed to send imps to haggle with mortals; they were coming to him. Under the guise of Mr. Bell, he purchased an office, hired a staff of tieflings, and opened for business as the Cabal. 

The Cabal will hire anyone that passes the prerequisite legal and brokerage exams, but prefers tiefling employees for their natural silver tongues and infernal blood. Soul brokers can also be hired to oversee other legal matters, as most soul brokers become qualified lawyers before taking the brokerage exams.